README.md, before:

<!-- markdownlint-disable-file MD033 MD041 -->
![Hugo Theme FixIt](https://fixit.lruihao.cn/images/apple-devices-preview.png)

<div align="center" class="ignore">
  <p>
    FixIt is a clean, elegant but advanced blog theme for <a href="https://gohugo.io/">Hugo</a>.<br>
    <em><sub>Don't forget to leave a ⭐️ if you like this theme, thanks!</sub></em>
  </p>
  English |
  <a href="/README.zh-cn.md">简体中文</a> |
  <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn/zh-cn/ecosystem/hugo-fixit/fixit/?lang=chinese_traditional">繁體中文</a> |
  <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn/ecosystem/hugo-fixit/fixit/?lang=french">Français</a> |
  <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn/ecosystem/hugo-fixit/fixit/?lang=russian">Русский язык</a> |
  <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn/ecosystem/hugo-fixit/fixit/?lang=spanish">Español</a> |
  <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn/ecosystem/hugo-fixit/fixit/?lang=hindi">हिन्दी</a> |
  <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn/ecosystem/hugo-fixit/fixit/?lang=german">deutsch</a> |
  <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn/ecosystem/hugo-fixit/fixit/?lang=korean">한국어</a> |
  <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn/ecosystem/hugo-fixit/fixit/?lang=japanese">しろうと</a>
</div>

<a title="FixIt website" href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn"><img align="right" alt="FixIt logo" width="70" height="70" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/110414864?s=200&v=4"></a>

# FixIt

> It is based on the original [LoveIt](https://github.com/dillonzq/LoveIt) Theme, [KeepIt](https://github.com/Fastbyte01/KeepIt) Theme and [LeaveIt](https://github.com/liuzc/LeaveIt) Theme.

[![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/hugo-fixit/FixIt?style=flat)](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/FixIt/releases)
[![Hugo](https://img.shields.io/badge/Hugo-%5E0.147.7-ff4088?style=flat&logo=hugo)](https://gohugo.io/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/hugo-fixit/FixIt?style=flat)](/LICENSE)

## Live Preview

<p align="center">
  💟 <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn">Production</a> | ❇️ <a href="https://pre.fixit.lruihao.cn">Preview</a> | 🚼 <a href="https://demo.fixit.lruihao.cn">Demo</a> | 🆕 <a href="https://hugo-fixit.github.io/hugo-fixit-starter/">Starter</a>
<br>
<br>
  More FixIt examples <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn/showcase/">here</a>.
</p>

## Why choose FixIt

I don't know why 🤷.

<!-- Too lazy to write... -->

## Usage

### Documentation

Head to the [Quick Start](https://fixit.lruihao.cn/documentation/getting-started/quick-start/) page for a step-by-step guide on how to create a new website with FixIt.

Outline: [Installation](https://fixit.lruihao.cn/documentation/installation/) ➜ [Getting Started](https://fixit.lruihao.cn/documentation/getting-started/) ➜ [Content Management](https://fixit.lruihao.cn/documentation/content-management/) ➜ [Advanced Usage](https://fixit.lruihao.cn/documentation/advanced/)

### Starter Wizard

We provided a CLI tool to help you create a new project with FixIt by a single command.

```bash
pnpx fixit-cli create my-blog
```

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/697494.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/697494)

### Templates

Click the following links to generate a new repository with template:

| Template                                      | repository                        | Generate link                  |
| :-------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :----------------------------: |
| A quick-start template base on Hugo Modules.  | [hugo-fixit-starter][starter]     | [Click][starter:generate]      |
| A quick-start template base on Git submodule. | [hugo-fixit-starter1][starter1]   | [Click][starter1:generate]     |
| Build multilingual sites using Fixit theme.   | [docs][docs]                      | [Click][docs:generate]         |
| Customize with FixIt theme.                   | [Lruihao/hugo-blog][lruihao-blog] | [Click][lruihao-blog:generate] |

[starter]: https://github.com/hugo-fixit/hugo-fixit-starter
[starter:generate]: https://github.com/hugo-fixit/hugo-fixit-starter/generate
[starter1]: https://github.com/hugo-fixit/hugo-fixit-starter1
[starter1:generate]: https://github.com/hugo-fixit/hugo-fixit-starter1/generate
[docs]: https://github.com/hugo-fixit/docs
[docs:generate]: https://github.com/hugo-fixit/docs/generate
[lruihao-blog]: https://github.com/Lruihao/hugo-blog
[lruihao-blog:generate]: https://github.com/Lruihao/hugo-blog/generate

## Features

<details>
<summary>Click to view.</summary>

### Performance and SEO

- Optimized for **performance**: 99/100 on mobile and 100/100 on desktop in [Google PageSpeed Insights](https://developers.google.com/speed/pagespeed/insights)
- Optimized SEO performance with a correct **SEO SCHEMA** based on JSON-LD
- **[Google Analytics](https://analytics.google.com/analytics)** supported
- **[Fathom Analytics](https://usefathom.com/)** supported
- **[Baidu Analytics](https://tongji.baidu.com/)** supported
- **[Umami Analytics](https://umami.is/)** supported
- **[Plausible Analytics](https://plausible.io/)** supported
- **[Cloudflare Web Analytics](https://www.cloudflare.com/web-analytics)** supported
- **[Splitbee Analytics](https://splitbee.io)** supported
- Search engine **verification** supported (Google, Bing, Yandex, Pinterest, Baidu, 360 and Sogou)
- **CDN** for third-party libraries supported

### Appearance and Layout

- **Responsive** layout
- **Light/Dark** mode
- Globally consistent **design language**
- **Pagination** supported
- Easy-to-use and self-expanding **table of contents**
- **Multilanguage** supported and i18n ready
- Beautiful **CSS animation**

### Social and Comment Systems

- **Gravatar** supported by [Gravatar](https://gravatar.com)
- Local **Avatar** supported
- Up to **87** social links supported
- Up to **28** share sites supported
- **Disqus** comment system supported by [Disqus](https://disqus.com)
- **Gitalk** comment system supported by [Gitalk](https://github.com/gitalk/gitalk)
- **Valine** comment system supported by [Valine](https://valine.js.org/)
- **Waline** comment system supported by [Waline](https://waline.js.org/)
- **Facebook comments** system supported by [Facebook](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/plugins/comments/)
- **Telegram comments** system supported by [Telegram Comments](https://comments.app/)
- **Commento** comment system supported by [Commento](https://commento.io/)
- **Utterances** comment system supported by [Utterances](https://utteranc.es/)
- **Artalk** comment system supported by [Artalk](https://artalk.js.org/)
- **Twikoo** comment system supported by [Twikoo](https://twikoo.js.org/)
- **giscus** comment system supported by [giscus](https://giscus.app/)

### Extended Features

- **AI Summary**, **AI Search** and **AI Chatbot** supported by [PostChat](https://ai.zhheo.com/console/login?InviteID=85041330)
- **PWA (Progressive Web App)** supported
- **Sub Menu** supported
- **Content Encryption** supported (Pages, Partial)
- **Friends** page embedded template
- **Search** supported by [algolia](https://www.algolia.com/), [Fuse.js](https://fusejs.io/), CSE or [PostChat](https://ai.zhheo.com/console/login?InviteID=85041330)
- **Custom Search Engine (CSE)** supported by [Google](https://programmablesearchengine.google.com/)
- **Twemoji** supported
- Automatically **highlighting** code
- **Copy code** to clipboard with one click
- **Images gallery** supported by [lightgallery](https://github.com/sachinchoolur/lightgallery)
- Extended Markdown syntax for **[Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) icons**
- Extended Markdown syntax for **ruby annotation**
- Extended Markdown syntax for **fraction**
- **Mathematical formula** supported by [KaTeX](https://katex.org/) or [MathJax](https://www.mathjax.org)
- **Diagrams** code fences extended and shortcode supported by [mermaid](https://github.com/knsv/mermaid)
- **Interactive data visualization** shortcode and code fences extended supported by [ECharts](https://echarts.apache.org/)
- **Timeline** code fences extended and shortcode supported
- **Mapbox** shortcode supported by [Mapbox GL JS](https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js)
- **Music player** shortcode supported by [APlayer](https://github.com/MoePlayer/APlayer) and [MetingJS](https://github.com/metowolf/MetingJS)
- **Bilibili player** and **Douyin player** shortcode
- Kinds of **admonitions** shortcode
- **Custom style** shortcode
- **Custom script** shortcode
- Open more **custom blocks**
- **Animated typing** supported by [TypeIt](https://typeitjs.com/)
- **Cookie consent banner** supported by [cookieconsent](https://github.com/osano/cookieconsent)
- **Web Watermark** supported by [cell-watermark](https://github.com/Lruihao/watermark)
- **Chinese typesetting** supported by [pangu.js](https://github.com/vinta/pangu.js)
- Options to **cache remote image** locally
- ...

</details>

## Multilingual and i18n

FixIt supports multilingual and i18n. For more information, see the [Content Management](https://fixit.lruihao.cn/documentation/content-management/introduction#multilingual) documentation. You are welcome to [contribute with a new language](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/FixIt/pulls).

<details>
<summary>FixIt supports the following languages.</summary>

- English
- Simplified Chinese
- Traditional Chinese
- French
- Polish
- Brazilian Portuguese
- Italian
- Spanish
- German
- Serbian
- Russian
- Romanian
- Vietnamese
- Hindi

</details>

## Theme Components

The FixIt theme balances **simplicity** and **extensibility** with extra [Hugo theme components](https://fixit.lruihao.cn/ecosystem/#-components) for customization.

<details>
<summary>Click to view.</summary>

<!-- HUGO_FIXIT_COMPONENTS:START -->
- [fixit-bundle](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/fixit-bundle)\
  🌲 Bundles the FixIt core theme and all hugo-fixit components into a single component.
- [cmpt-flyfish](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/cmpt-flyfish)\
  🐟 A canvas implemented animation effect of small fish swimming.
- [cmpt-mdevtools](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/cmpt-mdevtools)\
  Mobile devtools component powered by vConsole and eruda.
- [cmpt-translate](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/cmpt-translate)\
  🌐 A component for site automatic translation.
- [component-projects](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/component-projects)\
  🐙 Display your GitHub projects in the FixIt theme and generate blog posts from readme.
- [hugo-atom-feed](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/hugo-atom-feed)\
  Hugo theme component for ATOM feed custom Output Format.
- [hugo-json-feed](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/hugo-json-feed)\
  Hugo theme component for JSON feed custom Output Format.
- [shortcode-asciinema](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/shortcode-asciinema)\
  A Hugo theme component with asciinema-embed shortcode.
- [shortcode-caniuse](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/shortcode-caniuse)\
  A Hugo theme component with caniuse shortcode.
- [shortcode-docs-bookmark](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/shortcode-docs-bookmark)\
  🔖 Embed bookmark of FixIt Docs.
- [shortcode-missing-translation](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/shortcode-missing-translation)\
  A Hugo theme component with missing-translation shortcode.
- [shortcode-mmt-netease](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/shortcode-mmt-netease)\
  🎶 A Hugo theme component with a NetEase Cloud random comment shortcode.
- [shortcode-rewards](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/shortcode-rewards)\
  A Hugo theme component with reward-log or sponsor-log shortcode.
<!-- HUGO_FIXIT_COMPONENTS:END -->

</details>

## Community

All feedback is welcome! Head over to the [discussions][discussions], [Pull requests][pulls] and [issues][issues] tracker.

| Official Community          | Description                     |
| :-------------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| [Discussions][discussions]  | GitHub discussion forum         |
| [FixIt WeChat group][wx-mp] | Follow and reply "FixIt" to get |
| [FixIt QQ group][qq-group]  | QQ group: `814031017`           |
| [Hugo FixIt Planet][zsxq]   | Paid knowledge Planet           |

[discussions]: https://github.com/hugo-fixit/FixIt/discussions
[pulls]: https://github.com/hugo-fixit/FixIt/pulls
[issues]: https://github.com/hugo-fixit/FixIt/issues
[qq-group]: https://qm.qq.com/cgi-bin/qm/qr?k=awbwdTtSQ_-H5QGzeJxdWgv6JMbNehNM&jump_from=webapi
[zsxq]: https://t.zsxq.com/GgKEW
[wx-mp]: https://lruihao.cn/images/qr-wx-mp.webp

## Contributing

We welcome you to join the development of FixIt. Please see [contributing document](/CONTRIBUTING.md). 🤗

Also, we welcome Issue or PR to our [official-components](https://github.com/hugo-fixit).

> [!note]
> When contributing, please first discuss the change you wish to make via a discussion on this repository before making the actual change.

## Acknowledgements

Thanks to all the [contributors](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/FixIt/graphs/contributors) for their support!

<details>
<summary>Thanks to the authors of following resources included in the theme:</summary>

- [normalize.css](https://github.com/necolas/normalize.css)
- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)
- [Simple Icons](https://github.com/simple-icons/simple-icons)
- [Animate.css](https://daneden.github.io/animate.css/)
- [autocomplete-js](https://github.com/algolia/autocomplete)
- [algoliasearch](https://github.com/algolia/algoliasearch-client-javascript)
- [Fuse.js](https://fusejs.io/)
- [object-fit-images](https://github.com/fregante/object-fit-images)
- [Twemoji](https://github.com/twitter/twemoji)
- [emoji-data](https://github.com/iamcal/emoji-data)
- [lightgallery](https://github.com/sachinchoolur/lightgallery)
- [Sharer.js](https://github.com/ellisonleao/sharer.js)
- [TypeIt](https://typeitjs.com/)
- [KaTeX](https://katex.org/)
- [MathJax](https://www.mathjax.org)
- [mermaid](https://github.com/mermaid-js/mermaid)
- [ECharts](https://echarts.apache.org/)
- [Mapbox GL JS](https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js)
- [APlayer](https://github.com/MoePlayer/APlayer)
- [MetingJS](https://github.com/metowolf/MetingJS)
- [Gitalk](https://github.com/gitalk/gitalk)
- [Valine](https://valine.js.org/)
- [cookieconsent](https://github.com/osano/cookieconsent)
- [cell-watermark](https://github.com/Lruihao/watermark)
- [不蒜子](http://busuanzi.ibruce.info/)
- [Vercount](https://github.com/EvanNotFound/vercount)
- [pangu.js](https://github.com/vinta/pangu.js)
- [Artalk](https://artalk.js.org/)
- [Waline](https://waline.js.org/)
- [Twikoo](https://twikoo.js.org/)
- [github-corners](https://github.com/tholman/github-corners)
- [giscus](https://giscus.app/)
- [crypto-js](https://github.com/brix/crypto-js)
- [pace](https://github.com/CodeByZach/pace)
- [xxhash-wasm](https://github.com/jungomi/xxhash-wasm)

</details>

<details>
<summary>The FixIt also draws on some features of the following projects, and thanks to their authors as well:</summary>

- [DoIt](https://github.com/HEIGE-PCloud/DoIt)
- [NexT](https://github.com/next-theme/hexo-theme-next)

</details>

## License

FixIt is licensed under the **MIT** license. Check the [LICENSE file](/LICENSE) for details.

## Sponsor

If you enjoy the theme, please consider buying me a coffee ☕️. Thanks!

- [Wechat](/images/wechatpay.jpg)
- [Alipay](/images/alipay.jpg)
- [PayPal](https://paypal.me/Lruihao)

Thanks to the following sponsors for their support:

- [translate.js](https://github.com/xnx3/translate) Sponsoring [Enterprise Translation Channel](https://translate.zvo.cn/4087.html).

## Author

[Lruihao](https://github.com/Lruihao "Follow me on GitHub")

Commit message:

:memo: Docs: add build status badges and Gitee stars to README files

README.md, after:

<!-- markdownlint-disable-file MD033 MD041 -->
![Hugo Theme FixIt](https://fixit.lruihao.cn/images/apple-devices-preview.png)

<div align="center" class="ignore">
  <p>
    FixIt is a clean, elegant but advanced blog theme for <a href="https://gohugo.io/">Hugo</a>.<br>
    <em><sub>Don't forget to leave a ⭐️ if you like this theme, thanks!</sub></em>
  </p>
  English |
  <a href="/README.zh-cn.md">简体中文</a> |
  <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn/zh-cn/ecosystem/hugo-fixit/fixit/?lang=chinese_traditional">繁體中文</a> |
  <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn/ecosystem/hugo-fixit/fixit/?lang=french">Français</a> |
  <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn/ecosystem/hugo-fixit/fixit/?lang=russian">Русский язык</a> |
  <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn/ecosystem/hugo-fixit/fixit/?lang=spanish">Español</a> |
  <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn/ecosystem/hugo-fixit/fixit/?lang=hindi">हिन्दी</a> |
  <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn/ecosystem/hugo-fixit/fixit/?lang=german">deutsch</a> |
  <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn/ecosystem/hugo-fixit/fixit/?lang=korean">한국어</a> |
  <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn/ecosystem/hugo-fixit/fixit/?lang=japanese">しろうと</a>
</div>

<a title="FixIt website" href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn"><img align="right" alt="FixIt logo" width="70" height="70" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/110414864?s=200&v=4"></a>

# FixIt

> It is based on the original [LoveIt](https://github.com/dillonzq/LoveIt) Theme, [KeepIt](https://github.com/Fastbyte01/KeepIt) Theme and [LeaveIt](https://github.com/liuzc/LeaveIt) Theme.

[![Build](https://img.shields.io/github/deployments/hugo-fixit/FixIt/Production?style=flat&label=Build&logo=vercel)](https://demo.fixit.lruihao.cn/)
[![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/hugo-fixit/FixIt?style=flat&label=Release&logo=github)](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/FixIt/releases)
[![Hugo](https://img.shields.io/badge/Hugo-%5E0.147.7-ff4088?style=flat&logo=hugo)](https://gohugo.io/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/hugo-fixit/FixIt?style=flat&label=License)](/LICENSE)
[![Gitee star of FixIt](https://gitee.com/lruihao/FixIt/badge/star.svg?theme=dark)](https://gitee.com/lruihao/FixIt/stargazers)

## Live Preview

<p align="center">
  💟 <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn">Production</a> | ❇️ <a href="https://pre.fixit.lruihao.cn">Preview</a> | 🚼 <a href="https://demo.fixit.lruihao.cn">Demo</a> | 🆕 <a href="https://hugo-fixit.github.io/hugo-fixit-starter/">Starter</a>
<br>
<br>
  More FixIt examples <a href="https://fixit.lruihao.cn/showcase/">here</a>.
</p>

## Why choose FixIt

I don't know why 🤷.

<!-- Too lazy to write... -->

## Usage

### Documentation

Head to the [Quick Start](https://fixit.lruihao.cn/documentation/getting-started/quick-start/) page for a step-by-step guide on how to create a new website with FixIt.

Outline: [Installation](https://fixit.lruihao.cn/documentation/installation/) ➜ [Getting Started](https://fixit.lruihao.cn/documentation/getting-started/) ➜ [Content Management](https://fixit.lruihao.cn/documentation/content-management/) ➜ [Advanced Usage](https://fixit.lruihao.cn/documentation/advanced/)

### Starter Wizard

We provided a CLI tool to help you create a new project with FixIt by a single command.

```bash
pnpx fixit-cli create my-blog
```

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/697494.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/697494)

### Templates

Click the following links to generate a new repository with template:

| Template                                      | repository                        | Generate link                  |
| :-------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- | :----------------------------: |
| A quick-start template base on Hugo Modules.  | [hugo-fixit-starter][starter]     | [Click][starter:generate]      |
| A quick-start template base on Git submodule. | [hugo-fixit-starter1][starter1]   | [Click][starter1:generate]     |
| Build multilingual sites using Fixit theme.   | [docs][docs]                      | [Click][docs:generate]         |
| Customize with FixIt theme.                   | [Lruihao/hugo-blog][lruihao-blog] | [Click][lruihao-blog:generate] |

[starter]: https://github.com/hugo-fixit/hugo-fixit-starter
[starter:generate]: https://github.com/hugo-fixit/hugo-fixit-starter/generate
[starter1]: https://github.com/hugo-fixit/hugo-fixit-starter1
[starter1:generate]: https://github.com/hugo-fixit/hugo-fixit-starter1/generate
[docs]: https://github.com/hugo-fixit/docs
[docs:generate]: https://github.com/hugo-fixit/docs/generate
[lruihao-blog]: https://github.com/Lruihao/hugo-blog
[lruihao-blog:generate]: https://github.com/Lruihao/hugo-blog/generate

## Features

<details>
<summary>Click to view.</summary>

### Performance and SEO

- Optimized for **performance**: 99/100 on mobile and 100/100 on desktop in [Google PageSpeed Insights](https://developers.google.com/speed/pagespeed/insights)
- Optimized SEO performance with a correct **SEO SCHEMA** based on JSON-LD
- **[Google Analytics](https://analytics.google.com/analytics)** supported
- **[Fathom Analytics](https://usefathom.com/)** supported
- **[Baidu Analytics](https://tongji.baidu.com/)** supported
- **[Umami Analytics](https://umami.is/)** supported
- **[Plausible Analytics](https://plausible.io/)** supported
- **[Cloudflare Web Analytics](https://www.cloudflare.com/web-analytics)** supported
- **[Splitbee Analytics](https://splitbee.io)** supported
- Search engine **verification** supported (Google, Bing, Yandex, Pinterest, Baidu, 360 and Sogou)
- **CDN** for third-party libraries supported

### Appearance and Layout

- **Responsive** layout
- **Light/Dark** mode
- Globally consistent **design language**
- **Pagination** supported
- Easy-to-use and self-expanding **table of contents**
- **Multilanguage** supported and i18n ready
- Beautiful **CSS animation**

### Social and Comment Systems

- **Gravatar** supported by [Gravatar](https://gravatar.com)
- Local **Avatar** supported
- Up to **87** social links supported
- Up to **28** share sites supported
- **Disqus** comment system supported by [Disqus](https://disqus.com)
- **Gitalk** comment system supported by [Gitalk](https://github.com/gitalk/gitalk)
- **Valine** comment system supported by [Valine](https://valine.js.org/)
- **Waline** comment system supported by [Waline](https://waline.js.org/)
- **Facebook comments** system supported by [Facebook](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/plugins/comments/)
- **Telegram comments** system supported by [Telegram Comments](https://comments.app/)
- **Commento** comment system supported by [Commento](https://commento.io/)
- **Utterances** comment system supported by [Utterances](https://utteranc.es/)
- **Artalk** comment system supported by [Artalk](https://artalk.js.org/)
- **Twikoo** comment system supported by [Twikoo](https://twikoo.js.org/)
- **giscus** comment system supported by [giscus](https://giscus.app/)

### Extended Features

- **AI Summary**, **AI Search** and **AI Chatbot** supported by [PostChat](https://ai.zhheo.com/console/login?InviteID=85041330)
- **PWA (Progressive Web App)** supported
- **Sub Menu** supported
- **Content Encryption** supported (Pages, Partial)
- **Friends** page embedded template
- **Search** supported by [algolia](https://www.algolia.com/), [Fuse.js](https://fusejs.io/), CSE or [PostChat](https://ai.zhheo.com/console/login?InviteID=85041330)
- **Custom Search Engine (CSE)** supported by [Google](https://programmablesearchengine.google.com/)
- **Twemoji** supported
- Automatically **highlighting** code
- **Copy code** to clipboard with one click
- **Images gallery** supported by [lightgallery](https://github.com/sachinchoolur/lightgallery)
- Extended Markdown syntax for **[Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) icons**
- Extended Markdown syntax for **ruby annotation**
- Extended Markdown syntax for **fraction**
- **Mathematical formula** supported by [KaTeX](https://katex.org/) or [MathJax](https://www.mathjax.org)
- **Diagrams** code fences extended and shortcode supported by [mermaid](https://github.com/knsv/mermaid)
- **Interactive data visualization** shortcode and code fences extended supported by [ECharts](https://echarts.apache.org/)
- **Timeline** code fences extended and shortcode supported
- **Mapbox** shortcode supported by [Mapbox GL JS](https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js)
- **Music player** shortcode supported by [APlayer](https://github.com/MoePlayer/APlayer) and [MetingJS](https://github.com/metowolf/MetingJS)
- **Bilibili player** and **Douyin player** shortcode
- Kinds of **admonitions** shortcode
- **Custom style** shortcode
- **Custom script** shortcode
- Open more **custom blocks**
- **Animated typing** supported by [TypeIt](https://typeitjs.com/)
- **Cookie consent banner** supported by [cookieconsent](https://github.com/osano/cookieconsent)
- **Web Watermark** supported by [cell-watermark](https://github.com/Lruihao/watermark)
- **Chinese typesetting** supported by [pangu.js](https://github.com/vinta/pangu.js)
- Options to **cache remote image** locally
- ...

</details>

## Multilingual and i18n

FixIt supports multilingual and i18n. For more information, see the [Content Management](https://fixit.lruihao.cn/documentation/content-management/introduction#multilingual) documentation. You are welcome to [contribute with a new language](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/FixIt/pulls).

<details>
<summary>FixIt supports the following languages.</summary>

- English
- Simplified Chinese
- Traditional Chinese
- French
- Polish
- Brazilian Portuguese
- Italian
- Spanish
- German
- Serbian
- Russian
- Romanian
- Vietnamese
- Hindi

</details>

## Theme Components

The FixIt theme balances **simplicity** and **extensibility** with extra [Hugo theme components](https://fixit.lruihao.cn/ecosystem/#-components) for customization.

<details>
<summary>Click to view.</summary>

<!-- HUGO_FIXIT_COMPONENTS:START -->
- [fixit-bundle](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/fixit-bundle)\
  🌲 Bundles the FixIt core theme and all hugo-fixit components into a single component.
- [cmpt-flyfish](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/cmpt-flyfish)\
  🐟 A canvas implemented animation effect of small fish swimming.
- [cmpt-mdevtools](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/cmpt-mdevtools)\
  Mobile devtools component powered by vConsole and eruda.
- [cmpt-translate](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/cmpt-translate)\
  🌐 A component for site automatic translation.
- [component-projects](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/component-projects)\
  🐙 Display your GitHub projects in the FixIt theme and generate blog posts from readme.
- [hugo-atom-feed](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/hugo-atom-feed)\
  Hugo theme component for ATOM feed custom Output Format.
- [hugo-json-feed](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/hugo-json-feed)\
  Hugo theme component for JSON feed custom Output Format.
- [shortcode-asciinema](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/shortcode-asciinema)\
  A Hugo theme component with asciinema-embed shortcode.
- [shortcode-caniuse](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/shortcode-caniuse)\
  A Hugo theme component with caniuse shortcode.
- [shortcode-docs-bookmark](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/shortcode-docs-bookmark)\
  🔖 Embed bookmark of FixIt Docs.
- [shortcode-missing-translation](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/shortcode-missing-translation)\
  A Hugo theme component with missing-translation shortcode.
- [shortcode-mmt-netease](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/shortcode-mmt-netease)\
  🎶 A Hugo theme component with a NetEase Cloud random comment shortcode.
- [shortcode-rewards](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/shortcode-rewards)\
  A Hugo theme component with reward-log or sponsor-log shortcode.
<!-- HUGO_FIXIT_COMPONENTS:END -->

</details>

## Community

All feedback is welcome! Head over to the [discussions][discussions], [Pull requests][pulls] and [issues][issues] tracker.

| Official Community          | Description                     |
| :-------------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| [Discussions][discussions]  | GitHub discussion forum         |
| [FixIt WeChat group][wx-mp] | Follow and reply "FixIt" to get |
| [FixIt QQ group][qq-group]  | QQ group: `814031017`           |
| [Hugo FixIt Planet][zsxq]   | Paid knowledge Planet           |

[discussions]: https://github.com/hugo-fixit/FixIt/discussions
[pulls]: https://github.com/hugo-fixit/FixIt/pulls
[issues]: https://github.com/hugo-fixit/FixIt/issues
[qq-group]: https://qm.qq.com/cgi-bin/qm/qr?k=awbwdTtSQ_-H5QGzeJxdWgv6JMbNehNM&jump_from=webapi
[zsxq]: https://t.zsxq.com/GgKEW
[wx-mp]: https://lruihao.cn/images/qr-wx-mp.webp

## Contributing

We welcome you to join the development of FixIt. Please see [contributing document](/CONTRIBUTING.md). 🤗

Also, we welcome Issue or PR to our [official-components](https://github.com/hugo-fixit).

> [!note]
> When contributing, please first discuss the change you wish to make via a discussion on this repository before making the actual change.

## Acknowledgements

Thanks to all the [contributors](https://github.com/hugo-fixit/FixIt/graphs/contributors) for their support!

<details>
<summary>Thanks to the authors of following resources included in the theme:</summary>

- [normalize.css](https://github.com/necolas/normalize.css)
- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)
- [Simple Icons](https://github.com/simple-icons/simple-icons)
- [Animate.css](https://daneden.github.io/animate.css/)
- [autocomplete-js](https://github.com/algolia/autocomplete)
- [algoliasearch](https://github.com/algolia/algoliasearch-client-javascript)
- [Fuse.js](https://fusejs.io/)
- [object-fit-images](https://github.com/fregante/object-fit-images)
- [Twemoji](https://github.com/twitter/twemoji)
- [emoji-data](https://github.com/iamcal/emoji-data)
- [lightgallery](https://github.com/sachinchoolur/lightgallery)
- [Sharer.js](https://github.com/ellisonleao/sharer.js)
- [TypeIt](https://typeitjs.com/)
- [KaTeX](https://katex.org/)
- [MathJax](https://www.mathjax.org)
- [mermaid](https://github.com/mermaid-js/mermaid)
- [ECharts](https://echarts.apache.org/)
- [Mapbox GL JS](https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js)
- [APlayer](https://github.com/MoePlayer/APlayer)
- [MetingJS](https://github.com/metowolf/MetingJS)
- [Gitalk](https://github.com/gitalk/gitalk)
- [Valine](https://valine.js.org/)
- [cookieconsent](https://github.com/osano/cookieconsent)
- [cell-watermark](https://github.com/Lruihao/watermark)
- [不蒜子](http://busuanzi.ibruce.info/)
- [Vercount](https://github.com/EvanNotFound/vercount)
- [pangu.js](https://github.com/vinta/pangu.js)
- [Artalk](https://artalk.js.org/)
- [Waline](https://waline.js.org/)
- [Twikoo](https://twikoo.js.org/)
- [github-corners](https://github.com/tholman/github-corners)
- [giscus](https://giscus.app/)
- [crypto-js](https://github.com/brix/crypto-js)
- [pace](https://github.com/CodeByZach/pace)
- [xxhash-wasm](https://github.com/jungomi/xxhash-wasm)

</details>

<details>
<summary>The FixIt also draws on some features of the following projects, and thanks to their authors as well:</summary>

- [DoIt](https://github.com/HEIGE-PCloud/DoIt)
- [NexT](https://github.com/next-theme/hexo-theme-next)

</details>

## License

FixIt is licensed under the **MIT** license. Check the [LICENSE file](/LICENSE) for details.

## Sponsor

If you enjoy the theme, please consider buying me a coffee ☕️. Thanks!

- [Wechat](/images/wechatpay.jpg)
- [Alipay](/images/alipay.jpg)
- [PayPal](https://paypal.me/Lruihao)

Thanks to the following sponsors for their support:

- [translate.js](https://github.com/xnx3/translate) Sponsoring [Enterprise Translation Channel](https://translate.zvo.cn/4087.html).

## Author

[Lruihao](https://github.com/Lruihao "Follow me on GitHub")
